The Dorian Principle, a Biblical response to the commercialization of Christianity by
Conley Owens, Chapter 4, the burden of support, difficulty versus obligation.
I've always enjoyed telling riddles.
It's one of my favorite pastimes.
Others might inform you that I enjoy torturing people with riddles.
Once I've started the enigma, I refuse to give hints beyond answers to yes or no questions.
Whenever a brave soul agrees to this experience, the first riddle I usually tell goes like
this.
"Jo is afraid to go home because the man with the mask is there.
Where's Jo?"
I'd prefer to let you struggle to determine the answer through carefully thought-out questions,
but despite advances in technology, I cannot do that through this book.
I will just have to tell you the answer.
Third base.
Jo is a baseball player afraid of stealing home base because the mask catcher protects
the plate.
The fun of this particular riddle lies in the fact that the hero typically imagines a scene
from a horror movie.
What hidden villain awaits Jo at his house?
Usually, it isn't until the end of the process that the riddle solver begins to reorient his
thinking around other scenarios such as sports.
Similar to the diversion of this riddle, when Paul speaks of burdening his churches through
ministry fundraising, people often assume his concern revolves around the notion of imposed
difficulty.
He does not accept money because he wishes to avoid placing undue hardships on anyone.
However, our investigation from the previous chapter in the various triangle diagrams we
developed should lead us to wonder whether he instead speaks of imposed obligation.
In this chapter, we will examine how Paul uses the notion of burden to describe his financial
disposition toward three churches, the Church of Philippi, the Church of Thessalonica, and
the Church of Corinth.
As we do, we will see that Paul's mentions of burden do not primarily refer to difficulty,
but to a direct obligation between man and minister that contends with an obligation
mediated by God.
Corinth and Thessalonica
Paul occasionally uses the word burden to explain his refusal of funds from the Corinthians
and Thessalonians.
For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except that I myself
did not burden you.
Forgive me this wrong.
Here for the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden, for I seek
not what is yours, but you.
For children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children.
For you remember brothers, our labor and toil, we work night and day that we might not be
a burden to any of you while we proclaim to you the gospel of God.
Versesalonians 2.9
For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not idle when we were with
you.
Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we work night
and day that we might not be a burden to any of you.
2.
Thessalonians 3.7.8
Specifically, Paul claims that his refusal of Corinthian and Thessalonian support stems
from his unwillingness to burden them.
A common understanding of these verses says that Paul does not wish to impose undue hardship
on these churches.
Certainly the word "burden" frequently emphasizes difficulty, but the picture complexifies
when set in contrast the apostles' disposition toward the Church of Philippi.
Philippi
Writing to the Corinthians, Paul hyperbobbly claims that he has robbed the churches
of Macedonia in order to avoid burdening them.
I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you, and when I was
with you and was in need I did not burden anyone for the brothers who came from Macedonia
supplied my need.
So I refrained and will refrained from burdening you in any way.
2.
Corinthians 11.8.3.9
When writing to the Church in Philippi, the most prominent church in Macedonia, Paul confirms
that no other supported him.
And you Philippians, yourselves, know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia,
no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only.
Another hint that Paul received Philippian aid appears in Acts when Silas and Timothy
join him for Macedonia.
Though Paul had been working as a tentmaker, Acts 183, and reasoning from Scripture only
on the Sabbath, Acts 184, he began to preach full time when they arrived, Acts 185.
This seems to imply that Paul's companions arrive with finances from Macedonia so that
he no longer needs to work.
Not only in Corinth, but also in Thessalonica, Paul receives aid from Philippi, Philippians
225, 416-18.
So why this disparity between Philippi and Corinth slashed Thessalonica?
Burden as difficulty
If we entertain the idea that Paul does not wish to impose on New hardship, then we might
conclude that the churches of Corinth and Thessalonica are impoverished compared to the
church in Philippi.
This position is, however, untenable.
Nothing suggests uniform poverty among the Corinthians.
Instead we see that they were mixed socially.
When Paul says that not many are of noble birth, 1 Corinthians 126, he implies that some
are.
Additionally, we see that there are some who are well off 1 Corinthians 1121.
The Mediterranean area as a whole economically boomed during the 1st century.
Philippi, on the other hand, evidences more signs of poverty.
Paul describes the Philippians as giving beyond their means, 2 Corinthians 8 4, and Paul
goes as far as to describe it as robbery to take money from them.
2 Corinthians 11 8.
If either the church in Corinth or Philippi could be charged with the pinnury, it would
be the Philippian church.
More importantly, with his repeated emphasis on sacrificial giving, the Apostles seems
to have no prohibition on receiving funds from those who would find it economically difficult
to give.
As we have already seen, he repeatedly expresses a willingness to receive financially from
the Corinthians in the form of propimpo support.
Yet considers this no undue hardship.
The notion of burden then must indicate something other than difficulty.
Burden as obligation.
In each instance, where Paul expresses an unwillingness to burden the Corinthians or Thessalonians,
he refers to the act of receiving support particularly in the context of initial ministry.
After he speaks of his labor to avoid burdening the Thessalonians, the Apostle describes
himself as a father of young children, Thessalonians 211, a denercing mother, Thessalonians 277.
This language of immaturity indicates the Thessalonians' initial conversion and contrast
to their existence as an established church.
Undoubtedly, Paul refers to the same incident when he mentions burdens in 2 Thessalonians
3-8.
Paul also speaks of the Corinthians as his children, but more importantly, he recalls
how the signs of an Apostle were performed when he first avoided burdening the Corinthians.
2 Corinthians 12-12-13.
This presumably refers to his initial arrival.
On the other hand, Paul never considers it a burden when he accepts money from firmly
established churches.
He does not say that he burdened other churches so that he would not burden the Corinthians,
but that he did not burden anyone at all.
2 Corinthians 11-9.
In other words, his reception of money from the more established Philippian church does
not count as a burden, even though he robbed them.
2 Corinthians 11-8.
On its face, 2 Corinthians 12-13 may suggest otherwise.
Or in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did
not burden you.
But the irony present in the verse more likely only indicates that his non-burdensome actions
toward the other churches would count as burdens if applied to the Corinthians.
Besides, it would be difficult to justify the Apostle's behavior if he actually did treat
his congregations with partiality, C.F. James 2-1.
But why does it matter that circumstances of initial ministry correlate to Paul's concern?
Quite simply, new converts are likely to offer money in exchange for the gospel.
Thus, Paul tells the Corinthians that if he were to accept their offer, his preaching
would no longer be free of charge.
One who pays for ministry incurs burden because the whole notion of payment presumes some
sort of debt, something that is owed.
In other words, Paul uses the word "burden" to refer to the direct obligation imposed
by ministerial reciprocity.
This becomes more apparent in another verse where he uses one of the same creed cruts,
"Barros," to speak of demands.
In order to seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have
made demands as apostles of Christ.
Verse Scyloneans 2-6.
To be clear, Paul does not employ some special protocol to reject money on initial visits
and accept it on others.
Neither does he reject money while he is with a congregation and accept it while he is
away.
On the contrary, he willingly receives from the first Philippian he evangelizes, Acts 1615,
CF, Philippians 1-5.
And he indefinitely continues to reject the Corinthians gift.
Verse Corinthians 9-15.
Second Corinthians 11-12.
He rejects support most frequently in the context of initial visits, but that is because
reciprocity is most frequently offered in the context of an initial visit.
The apostle only receives support as co-labor, and when he arrives in an unavangelized area,
there are rarely co-laborers to be found.
Philippian partnership.
In contrast to the passages we have examined regarding the Corinthians and Thessalonians,
Paul willingly receives from the Philippians.
As you might guess, rather than reciprocity, there are offerings of material support constitute
co-labor.
Paul especially evidences this co-labor by his use of the Greek word "coinonia", often
translated as fellowship or partnership.
Coinonia frequently refers to functional partnerships rather than merely the mutual trust
that corresponds to such partnerships.
For example, Luke uses it to speak of a business cooperative between fishermen, Luke 510.
So when the apostle repeats this word in his epistle to the Philippians describing their
mutual relationship, the concept of a joint business venture should color our understanding
of their contribution.
Additionally, the unparalleled commercial terms used in Philippians 410-20 indicate that
the Philippians do not offer a gift to Paul so much as a shared resource for achieving gospel-oriented
purposes.
In other words, they operate as investors, funding a skilled labor and a common enterprise.
Since they both aim for promotion of the gospel, their transaction does not imply a direct
obligation to Paul, and thus is not characterized by necessity or by proportional exchange.
Those who share the same Lord organically work together to pursue the same goals.
Notably, Julian and Agarou and what is likely the most advanced study on the relationship
between Paul and the Philippians reaches the same conclusions.
Regarding the mutuality of the relationship, he writes that rather than exchanging finances
slash goods, slash services, Paul and the Philippians contribute to a common fund.
And that in this model, the contributions need not have been of equal amount or similar
kind.
In other words, the typical quid pro quo exchange of reciprocity is absent.
Rather, Paul and the Philippians labor together, the Philippians supplying venture capital
and Paul supplying skill, time, and energy.
This resolves an additional mystery about the book of Philippians.
Why the thankless thanks?
That is, Paul writes this letter on the occasion of receiving aid from the Philippians while
imprisoned, Philippians 1-14-4-10.
Yet not until the very end of the epistle does he directly acknowledge their contribution,
Philippians 4-10-20.
Even then, rather than highlighting the blessing it is to impersonally, he emphasizes his
sufficiency without it, Philippians 4-11-13.
The notion of co-labor illuminates the apostles otherwise unexpected behavior.
The epistle lacks the typical gratitude of a thank you letter, because rather than
giving to Paul, the Philippians give primarily to God.
The apostle commends them for their faithfulness in the matter of his poverty, but their shared
purpose is greater than his own well-being.
And the words of David Ibrionis.
Paul's merely pass on the commodity of another as mediators or mutual brokers.
In this way, both mediating parties equally share a vertical tie of obligation to God,
which partly, though not completely, disentangles the horizontal ties of obligation to each other.
Put simply, because of the divine third party, obligation ceases to be primarily between
Paul and the Philippians.
Rionis reckons Paul and the Philippians as mediating parties exchanging resources, gifts originating
from God being given to one at the hands of the other, but tacitly identifies God as
mediating the obligation between the two.
Paul's description of the Philippians' gift as sacrifice solidifies this mediated obligation.
I have received full payment and more.
I am well supplied, having received from a path for dietest the gifts you sent, a fragrant
offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God, Philippians 4.18.
While the Philippians render material support ultimately to Paul, the religious term sacrifice
indicates that, in a more immediate sense, they render it to God.
Just as Old Testament Israel sacrificed to God by giving to his priests, the New Testament
church often sacrifices to God by giving to his ministers.
Conclusion The Dorian Principle resolves this problem of burden
nicely, contrasting reciprocity with co-labor.
If the Corinthians or Thessalonians exchange material support for the gospel, they implicitly
acknowledge themselves indebted to the gospel per claimer, burdened.
However, if Paul anticipates or even expects their co-labor, he does not burden them because
he suggests no direct obligation to himself.
Instead, they find themselves directly obligated to Christ, one whose burden is light, Matthew
1130.
This conclusion aligns with Paul's consistent use of this term in the active voice.
He is concerned that he will burden them, not that they may be burdened in general.
Those who offer support as co-labor may give out of their obligation to God, but the Apostle
lays no burden on anyone, including the Philippians.
End of chapter 4
[Music]